= Page =

= Toolbox =

= Search =

= List of Canada mathematics competitions =
National Competitions  The Canadian Mathematical Society holds math competitions in Canada, including: The University of Waterloo Centre for Education in Mathematics and Computing (CEMC) offers math and computer science competitions for students in grades 7-12. The International Mathematics Tournament of the Towns is a mathematical competition that doesn't require special knowledge or highly developed technical skills but require an imagination and fresh ideas. It is held in Canada in Toronto, Vancouver, Edmonton, Calgary, and Windsor. The Mathematica competitions are held by the Mathematics Contest Centre, for students in grade 3-9. Online Mathematics Competitions  The Caribou Cup , run by Caribou Contests , is a yearly series of six international online math contests for students in grades 2-12 from all types of schools, including homeschoolers. Contests are accessible worldwide for students and are provided in English, French, Persian, and Mandarin. Most of the questions are multiple choice. with the exception of interactive games questions. Top scoring students and schools receive prizes amounting to 1500 CAD total. The first October contest is free for all levels, and the grade 2 level is free all year. Previous contest questions and solutions are available on the contest website. The Purple Comet! Math Meet is a free, online, international, team mathematics competition designed for middle and high school students conducted annually since 2003. The Beestar National Math Competition is an online competition open to students in Canada and around the world. It is specifically designed for elementary and middle school students and has been conducted twice a year in March and October since 2016. Foreign Competitions that allow Canadian Participation  The American Mathematics Competition (AMC) has 3 levels: depending on a students grade in school  Alberta  The Alberta High School Mathematics Competition is an annual mathematics competition for high school students in Alberta.  Quebec  The Association Mathématique du Québec offers competitions for secondary school students and for CÉGEP students. 
== See also ==
Something appears to not have loaded correctly. Click to refresh .